---
layout: article
title: SCISSOR  
head-title: SCISSOR&#58; security monitoring for industrial control systems
image: /img/content/logo_scissor.png
category: r-and-d
permalink: /r-and-d/scissor/
redirect_from:
  - /r-and-d/2015/01/01/scissor.html
  - /r-and-d/2015/01/01/scissor/
---

With a holistic approach, [SCISSOR][web] designs a new generation
SCADA security monitoring framework to allow for connected, yet
secure, industrial control systems.  The framework contains four
primary components: monitoring, control, analysis/decision, and a
human-machine interface.  Cloud technologies touch all of these
components, giving the system a unprecedented level of flexibility,
computing power and responsiveness.

SixSq brings its NuvlaBox concept and technology to the project.  This
allows a cloud computing platform to be embedded directly into the
system allowing tailored, local analysis of monitoring information.
Use of the NuvlaBox also allows remote control of the computing
platform through SlipStream.  Through the project, SixSq will further
enhance the capabilities of the NuvlaBox while hardening both the
hardware and software for challenging real-world SCADA deployment.

**Project website:** [http://scissor-project.com][web]

**Funding** SCISSOR is funded through the European Commission's H2020
  programme under grant agreement 644425.

**Duration:** 36 Months (ends 31/12/2017) 

**Partners:** 9 lead by [Assystem][assystem] 

**Goal for SixSq:** Bringing NuvlaBox as platform for embedded cloud.
  SlipStream and concepts for general integration and remote control
  of NuvlaBoxes.

[web]: http://scissor-project.com
[assystem]: http://www.assystem.com/en/home.html
