---
layout: untitled
title: SlipStream
category: product
---

Automated, on-demand, creation of multi-machine runtime
environments. In other words, your software engineering PaaS solution,
as product and service.

Your Software Engineering on Cloud (PaaS)
-----------------------------------------

SlipStream™ in a nutshell: Automated, on-demand, creation of
multi-machine runtime environments. In other words, your software
engineering PaaS solution, as product and service.

We've developed SlipStream™ such that you can "Release with
confidence" With SlipStream™, from SixSq, you can now assess from any
point in your software development chain the impact of any software or
configuration change on your ability to deploy into production.  As an
analogy, while junit provides a framework for test automation at the
class level, SlipStream™ does the same but at the system level,
including multi-node deployment scenarios.  Further, SlipStream™
allows you to automate off-nominal scenarios, such as data centre
power failures or service unavailability, to verify that your system
is able to recover and maintain the expected quality of service your
customers expect from your software.

SlipStream™ is to software engineering what the robotic assembly-line
is to manufacturing.  SlipStream™ is a simple to use, yet powerful,
application available to deliver a service in the form of a secured
managed infrastructure and environment such that you do not have to
worry about or maintain your own infrastructure.  Evaluation of
SlipStream™ takes a few minutes, using our public secure on-line
service (SaaS), tutorials and documentation.

SlipStream™ v1.0 beta supports StratusLab, an open source IaaS
distribution and reference cloud. We are currently adding support for
Amazon EC2.

The advantage of SlipStream™ running on top of StratusLab is that you
can deploy SlipStream™ on your own infrastructure, if running on a
commercial public cloud like EC2 is not working for you.  We will also
soon be able to manage different cloud back-ends from the same
SlipStream™ installation giving you even more freedom.
