---
layout: article
title: StratusLab
class: status_lab
category: products
permalink: products/stratuslab.html
---

Open-source IaaS cloud distribution. Turn your physical infrastructure into
powerful IaaS cloud in minutes, based on solid and proven open source software.


European Project
================

StratusLab is a European project partly funded by the European Commission.
SixSq is a founding member of the consortium.

SixSq, responsible within the StratusLab consortium for integration and
testing, has put significant effort to ensure that the distribution can be
installed and configured very quickly. In fact, for simple deployments, system
administrators can turn existing physical infrastructures into IaaS cloud
within minutes. The idea being that simple things should be simple, this is
why the StratusLab distribution ships with sensible defaults, which will work
in most of the cases, at least to start with.

With the release of version 1.0, the fully open-source StratusLab distribution
now offers a complete solution for creating and managing cloud-based
infrastructures. It integrates the OpenNebula virtual infrastructure manager
with tools such as the Claudia platform service management toolkit for dynamic
service provisioning and scalability; a Marketplace allowing scientific user
communities to create, search for and share customised digitally-signed
virtual machine images; persistent storage allowing users to create and access
disks on remote cloud storage resources; a web monitoring tool, and a
comprehensive set of easy-to-use command-line tools for system administrators
and users.

StratusLab Features
===================

The features of StratusLab v1.0 include:

  * Fully production-ready release with many bug-fixes and enhancements over
    previous versions OpenNebula 2.2 virtual infrastructure manager

  * Claudia platform service management toolkit for dynamic service
    provisioning and scalability

  * Marketplace allowing user communities to create, search for and share
    customised digitally-signed virtual machine images

  * Base OS images available in the Marketplace as well as grid and
    bioinformatics appliances

  * Persistent storage allowing users to create and access disks on remote
    cloud storage resources

  * Sophisticated web-monitoring tool

  * easy-to-use command-line tools for system administrators and users

  * authentication proxy service which allows cloud authentication via X509
    grid certificates

  * Manual and Quattor installation options

The StratusLab cloud distribution also includes unique features to facilitate
the integration of cloud and grid technologies, such as the authentication
Proxy service which allows user authentication via a range of credentials,
including X509 grid certificates, integration with the Quattor fabric
management toolkit widely used in Grid sites, and a set of grid server
appliances available through the StratusLab Marketplace.

Previous public releases are already in use in production infrastructures,
with a Grid site currently running on a StratusLab cloud as part of the Greek
National Grid Infrastructure. With the release of version 1.0 it is hoped that
other grid sites will follow suit, bringing the benefits of cloud computing to
the broader European distributed computing infrastructure ecosystem.

The [StratusLab project](http://stratuslab.eu) is funded through the European
Union Seventh Framework Programme (FP7). Visit the website for more
information on how to use the StratusLab cloud reference infrastructure or to
install your own cloud.

The StratusLab distribution brings the benefits of cloud computing to the
European distributed computing and grid research infrastructures, making sites
easier to manage and enhancing flexibility and energy efficiency by allowing
site administrators to deploy services on a private cloud. Future releases
will look at adding cloud federation and scale-out to commercial cloud
services to meet peak demands. This will result in major benefits for European
academic research and is part of the European Commission strategy to develop
European computing infrastructures.

Get Started with StratusLab v1.0
================================

StratusLab Client
-----------------

Check out the StratusLab Reference Infrastructure to try out a StratusLab
cloud, [download](http://www.stratuslab.eu/doku.php/release:users) the
StratusLab Client interface tools.

Install Your Own StratusLab Cloud
---------------------------------

Resource providers install your own public or private cloud with StratusLab
1.0. Find all the [documentation and
instructions](http://www.stratuslab.eu/doku.php/release:providers) for
downloading the software.

Documentation and Community Support
-----------------------------------

Full [documentation](http://www.stratuslab.eu/doku.php/documentation) for
StratusLab version 1.0 is also available.

You can also view and comment on the StratusLab project
[roadmap](http://www.stratuslab.eu/doku.php/roadmap:project_roadmap).

Please see StratusLab's [support
page](http://www.stratuslab.eu/doku.php/support), or contact the StratusLab
[support mailing list](mailto:support@stratuslab.eu) if you have questions or feedback on the StratusLab
distribution, or to get access to the StratusLab reference installation.

Commercial Support
==================

Need support for your evaluation of StratusLab? [Get in touch](support@sixsq.com) directly with
SixSq.

Further to providing support, we can also help you better understand how to
integrate StratusLab with your existing infrastructure and services.

The StratusLab Team
===================

The StratusLab project brings together six organizations, all key players with
recognized leadership, proven expertise, experience and skills in grid and
cloud computing. This collaboration presents a balanced combination of
academic, research and industrial institutes with complementary capabilities.
The participating organizations include the [Centre National de la Recherche
Scientifique (CNRS)](http://cnrs.fr/), France; the [Universidad Complutense de
Madrid](http://ucm.es/), Spain; the [Greek Research and Technology Network
S.A.](http://grnet.gr/), Greece; [SixSq SÃ rl](http://sixsq.com), Switzerland;
[Telefonica Investigacion y Desarrollo](http://tid.es/), Spain, and [Trinity
College Dublin](http://tcd.ie/), Ireland.
