
---
layout: article
title: SixSq at European Grid Infrastructure Technical Forum
image: img/content/img_01.png
category: news
---

Europe researchers require a powerful, flexible and sophisticated IT
infrastructure to support their important work. To help define the path
towards this important goal, organizations such as CERN, ESA and EGI are
working together. SixSq was invited to join the discussion.

From the grid to the cloud, Europe is paving the way to a new pan-European
cloud-based IT infrastructure.

Organizations such as CERN, ESA and EGI are working together in defining a
common roadmap and perhaps joining forces.

SixSq brings to the discussion its SME and industrial perspective, but also
shared knowledge of the European space business and large scale IT systems
required for big science.

The workshop organized on July 28-29 at ESRIN in Rome is composed of several
roundtables with moderated discussions. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,
consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla mattis ornare quam euismod sollicitudin.
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla mattis ornare
quam euismod sollicitudin.

The workshop organized on July 28-29 at ESRIN in Rome is composed of several
roundtables with moderated discussions. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,
consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla mattis ornare quam euismod sollicitudin.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla mattis ornare
quam euismod sollicitudin. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing
elit. Nulla mattis ornare quam euismod sollicitudin. Lorem ipsum dolor sit
amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.

The workshop organized on July 28-29 at ESRIN in Rome is composed of several
roundtables with moderated discussions. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,
consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla mattis ornare quam euismod sollicitudin.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla mattis ornare
quam euismod sollicitudin. The workshop organised on July 28-29 at ESRIN in
Rome is composed of several roundtables with moderated discussions. Lorem
ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla mattis ornare quam
euismod sollicitudin.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla mattis ornare
quam euismod sollicitudin.The workshop organised on July 28-29 at ESRIN in
Rome is composed of several roundtables with moderated discussions.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla mattis ornare
quam euismod sollicitudin.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla mattis ornare
quam euismod sollicitudin.
