---
layout: article_job
title: Software Developer
category: jobs
class: jobs
image: /img/design/slipstream_category.png
---

There is an opening in the SixSq team for a Software Developer to support [HEPIA](http://hepia.hesge.ch/), the University of Applied Sciences, on the PAChA project. PAChA is a one-year project with the following goals:

- to develop a new type of private, portable cloud appliance.
- to develop tools to estimate the potential savings when deploying applications on private, public or hybrid cloud environments.

The successful candidate will be employed by  HEPIA but will work with the SixSq team located in the Meyrin offices. 

The candidate must be a Swiss or European citizen or have a valid Swiss working permit. 

**Note: Placement agencies, please do not apply as we require direct assignment.**

The selected candidate would ideally start in March.

Skills and Experience
=====================

We are looking for candidates with the following skills and experience:  


**Technical**  

- Knowledge of cloud technologies and distributed systems
- Linux Operating System
- Good knowledge of Linux networking
- Good knowledge of Java and Python
- Knowledge of Clojure would be an advantage
- Expertise in CloudStack with knowledge of installation, administration and internals.


**Personal**

- Self-motivated and organised
- Curious, innovative and courageous
- Enjoy working in an international and dynamic team 


**Educational**

- Masters degree or equivalent in a relevant discipline


**Language skills**  

- Good spoken and written French and English


If you have any questions on the opening, SixSq, the PAChA project or HEPIA don't hesitate to [get in touch](mailto:jobs@sixsq.com?subject=job%20application).


Selection Process
===================

Interested? Please send your CV, motivation letter and names of 3 references **by 1 March 2015** to   [jobs@sixsq.com](mailto:jobs@sixsq.com?subject=job%20application). Please clearly indicate your preferred starting date.
